# smart-home-automation
It's a smart home automation system which gives us access to operate all the home appliances from home or outside home through DTMF and WIFI module.
Home automation system makes the operations of various home appliances more convenient and saves energy. With the energy saving concept, home automation or building automation makes life very simple nowadays. It involves automatic controlling of all electrical or electronic devices in homes or even remotely through wireless communication. Centralized control of lighting equipments, air conditioning and heating, audio/video systems, security systems, kitchen appliances and all other equipments used in home systems is possible with this system.
This system is mainly implemented by sensors, controlling devices and actuators as shown in the figure. The sensors detects light, motion, temperature and other sensing elements, and then send that data to the main controlling devices. These sensors can be thermocouples or thermistors, photo detectors, level sensors, pressure sensors, current transformers, IR sensors, etc., which need an additional signal conditioning equipment to communicate with the main controller.
Controllers may be personal computers/laptops, touch pads, smart phones, etc., attached to the controlling devices like programmable-logic controllers that receive the information from the sensors, and based on the program, control the actuators. This program can be modified based on the load operations. The programmable controller allows to connect various sensors and actuators through various input and output modules whether they are analog or digital.
